hello this is chef john from food wishes
calm with Waldorf salad that's right I'm
going to show you my take on America's
most famous fruit salad and for whatever
reason if you've never had one of these
before you are in for a huge treat this
thing is just a triumph of taste and
texture I mean do you have any idea how
delicious a fruit salad has to be to
actually get a name that's not easy so
that should tell you something
so let me go ahead and show you my
version for this and first up we're
going to prep the celery but we're not
going to use regular stock celery we are
going to use celery root which looks
like this and what we're going to do to
prep this we're going to cut the top off
and yes absolutely I'm going to save
that and use it for regular stock celery
and then we'll also trim off the bottom
although I cut off way too much and then
if you I can peel this with a regular
vegetable peeler but that surface is
kind of narrow Lee so I like to just go
around with a knife like this kind of
shave it off that skin and we're going
to go all the way around as well as trim
up the bottom until basically we just
have that white root and once that's
been trimmed up what we'll do is we'll
cut like quarter-inch slices and then
we'll take those slices and cut them
into about quarter-inch sticks and you
know what let's go ahead and loop
dangerously and do two at once thereby
doubling our production speed and once
we've cut those in the sticks as you
well know all we need to do is turn them
and cut them into nice fairly even cubes
so we will cube up our celery roots and
once that's done what we'll do is we'll
toss it in some cold water and just let
it sit there while we're prepping our
other ingredients and this is not so
much to prevent discoloration but I want
those cubes to be fully hydrated and
also I think that water might leach away
just a little bit of the bitterness but
I can't prove it but anyway regardless
I'm gonna leave mine in some cold water
and move on to the next thing you want
to prep ahead of time your walnuts so
we're going to toast a handful of walnut
pieces in a dry pan over medium heat
just throw them in and toss them around
until basically they smell like toasted
walnuts and it's really not that easy to
see I camera here but they are going to
turn a little bit golden and you might
see a few brown marks here and there but
we don't want to go too far take a dark
brown they're going to be too bitter so
like I said the best indication is just
toss those around in the dry pan until
they sort of smell like toasted walnuts
at which point we'll transfer those onto
a plate to cool
because of course the last thing you
want on your salad is hot nuts so we
will set those aside and let them cool
off while we move on to the next thing
on the prep list the dressing which is
ridiculously simple so in a bowl we're
going to start with three parts
mayonnaise to which we're going to add
one part sour cream or creme fraiche and
I think it's pretty obvious which one
I'm using and then to that we're going
to add a little bit of sugar just a
couple pinches as well as a pinch of
salt a little touch of freshly ground
black pepper and then of course so
everything tastes better a little touch
of cayenne and then it finishes off
we're gonna add the juice of half a
lemon
of course freshly squeezed what kind of
crazy person with access to fresh lemons
is using the stuff in the bottle and
then last but not least a little bit of
freshly chopped tarragon my all-time
favorite seafood herb is also my
favorite all-time fruit salad herb and
then we'll go ahead and mix that
together and our super simple but
insanely delicious Waldorf salad
dressings done so we'll give that a
little whisk in and then of course taste
for seasoning and because this is going
to get tossed with other ingredients it
is hard to know for sure but you are
going to want to taste it anyway
I mean it's sitting right there and once
our salad dressing is set we are ready
to move to final assembly so the main
ingredient in this salad is fresh apples
and this is how I suggest you prep them
so we're going to take our apple and cut
it right down the middle and then we'll
cut each of those halves in half to make
quarters and then this is how I like to
remove the core we'll just turn that
piece like this and then using our knife
at about a 45 degree angle we'll just
make one little cut right there
and that core or at least 25% of it is
going to be gone so very quick and easy
technique to remove those seeds and then
once we have our Apple quartered and
cored we will simply slice those wedges
lengthwise and cut them into whatever
size chunks we want so that is the
official food wishes technique so we'll
go ahead and toss our apples in a bowl
to which we can add our very well
drained celery root cubes I'm also going
to do some green grapes which I've
quartered seedless green grapes please
do not use the ones with seeds instead
of making a Waldorf salad you'll make an
annoying salad and we'll also toss in
our now cool toasted walnut pieces and
that's it do not screw this salad up I
try to be creative and throw a bunch
extra stuff in
some people put in dried fruit things
like that but I'm not into it the only
other thing we're going to put in here
is our dressing and we do want our fruit
coated but we don't want it totally
swimming in the dressing so what I'll do
is I'll throw some in and mix it up and
then evaluate so that's what I'm doing
right now I'm staring at it thinking to
myself chef Jon you need a little more
dressing that's what I call myself in my
head so I tossed it in another spoon and
gave it a mix and once that's mixed up
and we feel like we have the perfect
amount of dressing all we need to do is
give it a taste
make sure everything's just right and
then we have options we can serve this
immediately which I actually enjoy or
you can wrap that up and put it in the
fridge for up to 24 hours this actually
holds surprisingly well and then as far
as how to serve it you have so many
options as you saw it made a beautiful
base for some pan-roasted chicken
breasts but this is also a terrific side
dish for things like roast turkey or
pork chops very nice with this but
having said all that I think my favorite
way to enjoy this is just in a bowl just
as a simple standalone fruit salad so
that's how I'll be finishing this video
off just serving that up as is with
maybe a couple sliced grapes for a
little color contrast and of course a
few extra toasted walnuts are going to
hurt anything and that's it our Waldorf
salad is done so let me go ahead and dig
in and like I said I just love the
combination of tasting textures here
sweet crunchy tangy just really really
fantastic and while I do enjoy Waldorf
salad just using regular celery stalks I
think by using the root we get a little
more interesting a little more mild
flavor but yet it still has enough of
that bitter celery flavor to bring out
the sweetness in the other fruit which
really is what makes the salad so
delicious but anyway that's it my take
on the venerable Waldorf salad which as
you may have guessed by the name was
invented at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in
New York back in the day so while this
is a very old salad it is still very
relevant and by relevant I mean
incredibly delicious and easy to make so
I really do hope you give this a try
soon head over to food wishes calm for
all the ingredient amounts and more info
as usual and as always enjoy
you